

.. _Description:

Description
   Task **sdcal** implements a single-dish data calibration scheme
   similar to that of interferometry, i.e., generate calibration
   tables (caltables) and apply them. Available calibration modes
   (*calmode*) are 'ps', 'otfraster', and 'otf' for sky (reference)
   calibration; and 'tsys' for :math:`T_{m sys}` calibration.
   Caltables can be applied to the data with *calmode* ='apply'.
   Each mode generates a caltable except for *calmode* ='apply'. A
   combination of mode keywords is also supported, e.g.,
   *calmode* ='ps,tsys,apply' to calibrate sky and
   :math:`T_{m sys}` on-the-fly. Calibration is available even
   for fast-moving sources like the Moon (see the note relating to
   the 'otf' mode below).
   The calibration mode must be set in accordance with the
   observing mode of the data. The modes are as follows:

   -  'ps': position switching (including OTF) with explicit
      reference (OFF) spectra
   -  'otfraster': raster OTF scan without explicit OFFs
   -  'otf': non-raster OTF scan without explicit OFFs

   Thus, if the data contains explicit reference spectra, 'ps'
   should be used. Otherwise, 'otfraster' or 'otf' should be used.
   In 'otfraster' and 'otf' modes, specific edge regions of the
   observation pattern are automatically marked as reference (OFF)
   spectra.
   These specific regions are:

   -  in 'otfraster' mode: regions near the beginning and end of the
      raster scan lines.
   -  in 'otf' mode: regions near the periphery of the observation
      pattern.

   .. note:: **NOTE**: Although the 'otfraster' mode is designed for OTF
      observations without explicit OFF spectra, it should work even
      if explicit reference spectra exist. In that case, the OFF
      spectra are ignored and spectra identified by an edge marker
      are used as the reference.

   .. note:: **NOTE**: Detection of periphery scans in 'otf' mode is
      available for "ephemeris" sources, e.g., the Sun and Moon.
      Often, antennas will track these ephemeris sources so that the
      target source is always at the map center. For such
      observations, a periphery search is done in the source frame of
      the ephemeris source, so the observing target maintains its
      position in the map. For calibration in the 'otf' mode, higher
      order pointing interpolation has been implemented to get the
      pointing direction for each spectral data more appropriately.

   Apart from the way reference spectra are selected, the procedure
   to derive calibrated spectra is the same for all modes. Selected
   (or preset) OFF integrations contiguous in time are identified,
   averaged in each segment, and then interpolated to timestamps for
   ON integrations. Effectively, it means that OFF integrations are
   averaged by each OFF spectrum for 'ps' mode, and averaged by
   either ends of each raster row for 'otfraster' mode. Spectra are
   calibrated by:

   :math:`T_{m sys}  \frac{ ON - OFF } { OFF }`.

   .. note:: **NOTE**: If *outfile* is unset and *calmode* doesn't include
      "apply", a default names of calibration tables are generated
      based on the *infile* and a predefined suffix  ('_sky' for sky,
      '_tsys' for :math:`T_{m sys}`).


.. _Examples:

Examples
   To compute and apply calibrations to a single-dish dataset that
   include explicit observations of an "OFF" position, as well as
   :math:`T_{sys}` calibration:

   ::

      sdcal(infile='uid___A002_Xb66884_Xdc3.ms',
            outfile='uid___A002_Xb66884_Xdc3.ms.sky',
            calmode='ps,tsys,apply')

   To build the calibration tables separately and apply them later:

   ::

      sdcal(infile='uid___A002_Xb66884_Xdc3.ms',
            outfile='uid___A002_Xb66884_Xdc3.ms.tsys',
            calmode='tsys')

      sdcal(infile='uid___A002_Xb66884_Xdc3.ms',
            outfile='uid___A002_Xb66884_Xdc3.ms.sky',
            calmode='ps')

      applycal(vis='uid___A002_Xb66884_Xdc3.ms',
               applymode='calflagstrict', spw='17,19,21,23',
               gaintable=['uid___A002_Xb66884_Xdc3.ms.tsys',
                          'uid___A002_Xb66884_Xdc3.ms.sky'],
               gainfield=['nearest', str(fid)], spwmap=tsysmap)

   Note, a :math:`T_{sys}` calibration table can also be generated by
   the task, **gencal**. The first command in the above example is
   equivalent to:

   ::

      gencal(vis='uid___A002_Xb66884_Xdc3.ms',
             caltable='uid___A002_Xb66884_Xdc3.ms.tsys',
             caltype='tsys')


.. _Development:

Development
   No additional development details

